README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  <a href="https://paradedb.com"><img src="docs/logo/readme.svg" alt="ParadeDB"></a>
<br>
</h1>

<p align="center">
  <b>Postgres for Search and Analytics</b> <br />
</p>

<h3 align="center">
  <a href="https://paradedb.com">Website</a> &bull;
  <a href="https://docs.paradedb.com">Docs</a> &bull;
  <a href="https://join.slack.com/t/paradedbcommunity/shared_invite/zt-2lkzdsetw-OiIgbyFeiibd1DG~6wFgTQ">Community</a> &bull;
  <a href="https://paradedb.com/blog/">Blog</a> &bull;
  <a href="https://docs.paradedb.com/changelog/">Changelog</a>
</h3>

---

[![Artifact Hub](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://artifacthub.io/badge/repository/paradedb)](https://artifacthub.io/packages/search?repo=paradedb)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/paradedb/paradedb)](https://hub.docker.com/r/paradedb/paradedb)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/paradedb/paradedb?color=blue)](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb?tab=AGPL-3.0-1-ov-file#readme)
[![Slack URL](https://img.shields.io/badge/Join%20Slack-purple?logo=slack&link=https%3A%2F%2Fjoin.slack.com%2Ft%2Fparadedbcommunity%2Fshared_invite%2Fzt-2lkzdsetw-OiIgbyFeiibd1DG~6wFgTQ)](https://join.slack.com/t/paradedbcommunity/shared_invite/zt-2lkzdsetw-OiIgbyFeiibd1DG~6wFgTQ)
[![X URL](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Fparadedb&label=Follow%20%40paradedb)](https://x.com/paradedb)

[ParadeDB](https://paradedb.com) is an Elasticsearch alternative built on Postgres. We're modernizing the features of Elasticsearch's product suite, starting with real-time search and analytics.

## Roadmap

- [x] Search
  - [x] Full-text search with BM25 with [pg_search](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/tree/dev/pg_search#overview)
  - [x] Dense and sparse vector search with [pgvector](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector#pgvector)
  - [ ] Distributed search
- [ ] Analytics
  - [x] Fast analytics over data lakes (i.e. S3) and table formats (i.e. Iceberg) with [pg_analytics](https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics)
  - [ ] Column-oriented Postgres table access method

For a detailed roadmap, see the [ParadeDB Roadmap for 2025](https://github.com/orgs/paradedb/discussions/2041).

## Get Started

To get started, please visit our [documentation](https://docs.paradedb.com).

## Deploying ParadeDB

ParadeDB and its extensions can be deployed in one of two ways:

- Docker image based on [Postgres](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres) ([see deployment instructions](https://docs.paradedb.com/deploy/aws))
- Kubernetes Helm chart based on [CloudNativePG](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/cloudnative-pg/cloudnative-pg) ([see deployment instructions](https://docs.paradedb.com/deploy/helm))

For more information, including enterprise features and support, please [contact us by email](mailto:sales@paradedb.com).

### Extensions

You can find prebuilt binaries for the ParadeDB Postgres extensions on Debian 11, 12, Ubuntu 22.04 and 24.04, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 and 9, and macOS 14 (Sonoma) and 15 (Sequoia) for Postgres 14+ in the [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/latest).

ParadeDB supports all versions supported by the PostgreSQL Global Development Group, which includes PostgreSQL 13+, and you can compile the extensions for other versions of Postgres by following the instructions in the respective extension's README.

### Docker Image

To quickly get a ParadeDB instance up and running, simply pull and run the latest Docker image:

```bash
docker run --name paradedb -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password paradedb/paradedb
```

This will start a ParadeDB instance with default user `postgres` and password `password`. You can then connect to the database using `psql`:

```bash
docker exec -it paradedb psql -U postgres
```

To install ParadeDB locally or on-premise, we recommend using our `docker-compose.yml` file. Alternatively, you can pass the appropriate environment variables to the `docker run` command, replacing the <> with your desired values:

```bash
docker run \
  --name paradedb \
  -e POSTGRES_USER=<user> \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=<password> \
  -e POSTGRES_DB=<dbname> \
  -v paradedb_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data/ \
  -p 5432:5432 \
  -d \
  paradedb/paradedb:latest
```

This will start a ParadeDB instance with non-root user `<user>` and password `<password>`. The `-v` flag enables your ParadeDB data to persist across restarts in a Docker volume named `paradedb_data`.

You can then connect to the database using `psql`:

```bash
docker exec -it paradedb psql -U <user> -d <dbname> -p 5432 -W
```

ParadeDB collects anonymous telemetry to help us understand how many people are using the project. You can opt out of telemetry using configuration variables within Postgres:

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET paradedb.pg_search_telemetry TO 'off';
```

### Helm Chart

ParadeDB is also available for Kubernetes via our Helm chart. You can find our Helm chart in the [ParadeDB Helm Chart GitHub repository](https://github.com/paradedb/charts) or download it directly from [Artifact Hub](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/paradedb/paradedb).

### ParadeDB Cloud

At the moment, ParadeDB is not available as a managed cloud service. If you are interested in a ParadeDB Cloud service, please let us know by joining our [waitlist](https://form.typeform.com/to/jHkLmIzx).

## Support

If you're missing a feature or have found a bug, please open a
[GitHub Issue](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/issues/new/choose).

To get community support, you can:

- Post a question in the [ParadeDB Slack Community](https://join.slack.com/t/paradedbcommunity/shared_invite/zt-2lkzdsetw-OiIgbyFeiibd1DG~6wFgTQ)
- Ask for help on our [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/discussions)

If you need commercial support, please [contact the ParadeDB team](mailto:sales@paradedb.com).

## Contributing

We welcome community contributions, big or small, and are here to guide you along
the way. To get started contributing, check our [first timer issues](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/labels/good%20first%20issue)
or message us in the [ParadeDB Community Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/paradedbcommunity/shared_invite/zt-2lkzdsetw-OiIgbyFeiibd1DG~6wFgTQ). Once you contribute, ping us in Slack and we'll send you some ParadeDB swag!

For more information on how to contribute, please see our
[Contributing Guide](/CONTRIBUTING.md).

This project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
By participating in this project, you agree to follow its terms.

Thank you for helping us make ParadeDB better for everyone :heart:.

## License

ParadeDB is licensed under the [GNU Affero General Public License v3.0](LICENSE) and as commercial software. For commercial licensing, please contact us at [sales@paradedb.com](mailto:sales@paradedb.com).

Commit message:

feat: cleaned up setup script & readme instructions

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  <a href="https://paradedb.com"><img src="docs/logo/readme.svg" alt="ParadeDB"></a>
<br>
</h1>

<p align="center">
  <b>Postgres for Search and Analytics</b> <br />
</p>

<h3 align="center">
  <a href="https://paradedb.com">Website</a> &bull;
  <a href="https://docs.paradedb.com">Docs</a> &bull;
  <a href="https://join.slack.com/t/paradedbcommunity/shared_invite/zt-2lkzdsetw-OiIgbyFeiibd1DG~6wFgTQ">Community</a> &bull;
  <a href="https://paradedb.com/blog/">Blog</a> &bull;
  <a href="https://docs.paradedb.com/changelog/">Changelog</a>
</h3>

---

[![Artifact Hub](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://artifacthub.io/badge/repository/paradedb)](https://artifacthub.io/packages/search?repo=paradedb)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/paradedb/paradedb)](https://hub.docker.com/r/paradedb/paradedb)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/paradedb/paradedb?color=blue)](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb?tab=AGPL-3.0-1-ov-file#readme)
[![Slack URL](https://img.shields.io/badge/Join%20Slack-purple?logo=slack&link=https%3A%2F%2Fjoin.slack.com%2Ft%2Fparadedbcommunity%2Fshared_invite%2Fzt-2lkzdsetw-OiIgbyFeiibd1DG~6wFgTQ)](https://join.slack.com/t/paradedbcommunity/shared_invite/zt-2lkzdsetw-OiIgbyFeiibd1DG~6wFgTQ)
[![X URL](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Fparadedb&label=Follow%20%40paradedb)](https://x.com/paradedb)

[ParadeDB](https://paradedb.com) is an Elasticsearch alternative built on Postgres. We're modernizing the features of Elasticsearch's product suite, starting with real-time search and analytics.

## Roadmap

- [x] Search
  - [x] Full-text search with BM25 with [pg_search](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/tree/dev/pg_search#overview)
  - [x] Dense and sparse vector search with [pgvector](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector#pgvector)
  - [ ] Distributed search
- [ ] Analytics
  - [x] Fast analytics over data lakes (i.e. S3) and table formats (i.e. Iceberg) with [pg_analytics](https://github.com/paradedb/pg_analytics)
  - [ ] Column-oriented Postgres table access method

For a detailed roadmap, see the [ParadeDB Roadmap for 2025](https://github.com/orgs/paradedb/discussions/2041).

## Get Started

To get started, please visit our [documentation](https://docs.paradedb.com).

## Deploying ParadeDB

ParadeDB and its extensions can be deployed in one of two ways:

- Docker image based on [Postgres](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres) ([see deployment instructions](https://docs.paradedb.com/deploy/aws))
- Kubernetes Helm chart based on [CloudNativePG](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/cloudnative-pg/cloudnative-pg) ([see deployment instructions](https://docs.paradedb.com/deploy/helm))

For more information, including enterprise features and support, please [contact us by email](mailto:sales@paradedb.com).

### Using the Setup Script

For an interactive setup run the following in your terminal.

```bash
sh <(curl https://www.paradedb.com)
```

**Note**: Currently we only support stable binaries for Debian and RHEL based linux distributions. For other Linux/Unix based Operating systems you'll need to build ParadeDB from source.

### Extensions

You can find prebuilt binaries for the ParadeDB Postgres extensions on Debian 11, 12, Ubuntu 22.04 and 24.04, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 and 9, and macOS 14 (Sonoma) and 15 (Sequoia) for Postgres 14+ in the [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/releases/latest).

ParadeDB supports all versions supported by the PostgreSQL Global Development Group, which includes PostgreSQL 13+, and you can compile the extensions for other versions of Postgres by following the instructions in the respective extension's README.

### Docker Image

To quickly get a ParadeDB instance up and running, simply pull and run the latest Docker image:

```bash
docker run --name paradedb -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password paradedb/paradedb
```

This will start a ParadeDB instance with default user `postgres` and password `password`. You can then connect to the database using `psql`:

```bash
docker exec -it paradedb psql -U postgres
```

To install ParadeDB locally or on-premise, we recommend using our `docker-compose.yml` file. Alternatively, you can pass the appropriate environment variables to the `docker run` command, replacing the <> with your desired values:

```bash
docker run \
  --name paradedb \
  -e POSTGRES_USER=<user> \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=<password> \
  -e POSTGRES_DB=<dbname> \
  -v paradedb_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data/ \
  -p 5432:5432 \
  -d \
  paradedb/paradedb:latest
```

This will start a ParadeDB instance with non-root user `<user>` and password `<password>`. The `-v` flag enables your ParadeDB data to persist across restarts in a Docker volume named `paradedb_data`.

You can then connect to the database using `psql`:

```bash
docker exec -it paradedb psql -U <user> -d <dbname> -p 5432 -W
```

ParadeDB collects anonymous telemetry to help us understand how many people are using the project. You can opt out of telemetry using configuration variables within Postgres:

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET paradedb.pg_search_telemetry TO 'off';
```

### Helm Chart

ParadeDB is also available for Kubernetes via our Helm chart. You can find our Helm chart in the [ParadeDB Helm Chart GitHub repository](https://github.com/paradedb/charts) or download it directly from [Artifact Hub](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/paradedb/paradedb).

### ParadeDB Cloud

At the moment, ParadeDB is not available as a managed cloud service. If you are interested in a ParadeDB Cloud service, please let us know by joining our [waitlist](https://form.typeform.com/to/jHkLmIzx).

## Support

If you're missing a feature or have found a bug, please open a
[GitHub Issue](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/issues/new/choose).

To get community support, you can:

- Post a question in the [ParadeDB Slack Community](https://join.slack.com/t/paradedbcommunity/shared_invite/zt-2lkzdsetw-OiIgbyFeiibd1DG~6wFgTQ)
- Ask for help on our [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/discussions)

If you need commercial support, please [contact the ParadeDB team](mailto:sales@paradedb.com).

## Contributing

We welcome community contributions, big or small, and are here to guide you along
the way. To get started contributing, check our [first timer issues](https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb/labels/good%20first%20issue)
or message us in the [ParadeDB Community Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/paradedbcommunity/shared_invite/zt-2lkzdsetw-OiIgbyFeiibd1DG~6wFgTQ). Once you contribute, ping us in Slack and we'll send you some ParadeDB swag!

For more information on how to contribute, please see our
[Contributing Guide](/CONTRIBUTING.md).

This project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
By participating in this project, you agree to follow its terms.

Thank you for helping us make ParadeDB better for everyone :heart:.

## License

ParadeDB is licensed under the [GNU Affero General Public License v3.0](LICENSE) and as commercial software. For commercial licensing, please contact us at [sales@paradedb.com](mailto:sales@paradedb.com).
